 1.what is cloud computing ?
Ans- Cloud computing is the delivery computing services from internet include servers,databases,datastorage,networking and softwarede
2.deployment model in cloud ?
Ans-The cloud deployment model identifies the specific type of cloud environment based on ownership, scale, and access, as well as the cloud's nature and purpose. 
3.Service Model in cloud ?
Ans-there are three types of service model iaas,paas,saas
4.Architrcture of cloud computing ?
Ans-AWS architecture is a process of planning, designing, and implementing AWS resources in a cloud infrastructure.
5.AWS global infrastucture count ?
Ans- 1) 32 lounched regions 2) 102 availability zones 3) 600+ points of presence 
6. Why do we use region ?
Ans- aws region is the cluster of data centers on specific geografical area then why they use  because to reduce  the latency and data reaches quiqkly
7.what is service? and what are resources ?
Ans- its cloud computing platform that offers various services like storage,computing power ,database, and widely used business purpose  and build application
resources-  is it   various components and services are avalable on amazon web service platform
8.how many resources do we have in iam ?
Ans user group,user,role,policies,tag,mfa
9.Deploy model in IAM ?
Ans- Deployment model has 4 type like private cloud,public cloud,community cloud,hybrid cloud
10.identities in Iam ?
Ans-user ,user group,roles
11.what is an i am user ?
Ans- aws in iam user is use  seprate aws account to access aws services 
12.what is iam group ?
Ans  -  an identity that specific collection of i am user
13 .what is iam policy?
Ans - user , groups are operation are worked with help of specific permission thatr called policy
14 what is iam role ?
Ans - it is a simple way to communication between two services and and grant the  temprory access without any creating aws acount
15 - where do we attached identity based policy ?
Ans -  identity based policy are attached in iam users .roles ,and group
16 - where do we used resource based policy ?
Ans - resources based policy are attached to resources like s3 bucket  
17 -can we able to a create a policy in json code ?
Ans - yes  with gthe help of json policy generator
18-if one user you created by default which permission are assigned with that user 
Ans - aws manage policy and customer managed policy 
19 -what is dominator policy?
Ans - in there  policy who grant the full access or grant high permission in other permission to specific user and group that means dominator policy
20 - what is arn and field ?
Ans - amazon resource name / field 1-partiton/2-service/3-region/4-account id /5 -resource id
21 - how many types od arn partition ?
Ans it has three partition 1-  aws us-gov region /2-Aws cloud region/3-Aws-CN-region
22 - what are tags ?
Ans - each tag involved user defined key and value  and usecase of tag to manage the identify and serching
